1 | 'Intellectual Disability (Intellectual Developmental Disorder)' | 'Intellectual disability occurs in all races and cultures. Cultural sensitivity and knowledge are needed during assessment, and the individual’s ethnic, cultural, and linguistic background, available experiences, and adaptive functioning within his or her community and cultural setting must be taken into account.'
1 | 'Autism Spectrum Disorder' | 'Cultural differences will exist in norms for social interaction, nonverbal communication, and relationships, but individuals with autism spectrum disorder are markedly impaired against the norms for their cultural context. Cultural and socioeconomic factors may affect age at recognition or diagnosis; for example, in the United States, late or underdiagnosis of autism spectrum disorder among African American children may occur ( Mandell et al. 2009 ) .'
1 | 'Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder' | 'Differences in ADHD prevalence rates across regions appear attributable mainly to different diagnostic and methodological practices ( Polanczyk et al. 2007 ) . However, there also may be cultural variation in attitudes toward or interpretations of children’s behaviors. Clinical identification rates in the United States for African American and Latino populations tend to be lower than for Caucasian populations ( Froehlich et al. 2007 ; Kessler et al. 2006 ; Miller et al. 2009 ) . Informant symptom ratings may be influenced by cultural group of the child and the informant ( Mann et al. 1992 ; Miller et al. 2009 ) , suggesting that culturally appropriate practices are relevant in assessing ADHD.'
1 | 'Specific Learning Disorder' | 'Specific learning disorder occurs across languages, cultures, races, and socioeconomic conditions but may vary in its manifestation according to the nature of the spoken and written symbol systems and cultural and educational practices ( Goswami et al. 2011 ) . For example, the cognitive processing requirements of reading and of working with numbers vary greatly across orthographies. In the English language, the observable hallmark clinical symptom of difficulties learning to read is inaccurate and slow reading of single words; in other alphabetic languages that have more direct mapping between sounds and letters (e.g., Spanish, German) and in non-alphabetic languages (e.g., Chinese, Japanese), the hallmark feature is slow but accurate reading. In English-language learners, assessment should include consideration of whether the source of reading difficulties is a limited proficiency with English or a specific learning disorder . Risk factors for specific learning disorder in English-language learners include a family history of specific learning disorder or language delay in the native language, as well as learning difficulties in English and failure to catch up with peers. If there is suspicion of cultural or language differences (e.g., as in an English-language learner), the assessment needs to take into account the individual’s language proficiency in his or her first or native language as well as in the second language (in this example, English). Also, assessment should consider the linguistic and cultural context in which the individual is living, as well as his or her educational and learning history in the original culture and language.'
1 | 'Developmental Coordination Disorder' | 'Developmental coordination disorder occurs across cultures, races, and socioeconomic conditions. By definition, “activities of daily living” implies cultural differences necessitating consideration of the context in which the individual child is living as well as whether he or she has had appropriate opportunities to learn and practice such activities.'
1 | 'Stereotypic Movement Disorder' | 'Stereotypic movement disorder , with or without self-injury, occurs in all races and cultures. Cultural attitudes toward unusual behaviors may result in delayed diagnosis. Overall cultural tolerance and attitudes toward stereotypic movement vary and must be considered.'
1 | 'Tic Disorders' | 'Tic disorders do not appear to vary in clinical characteristics, course, or etiology by race, ethnicity, and culture. However, race, ethnicity, and culture may impact how tic disorders are perceived and managed in the family and community, as well as influencing patterns of help seeking, and choices of treatment ( Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 2009 ; Olfson et al. 2011 ) .'
2 | 'Delusional Disorder' | 'An individual’s cultural and religious background must be taken into account in evaluating the possible presence of delusional disorder . The content of delusions also varies across cultural contexts.'
2 | 'Brief Psychotic Disorder' |'It is important to distinguish symptoms of brief psychotic disorder from culturally sanctioned response patterns. For example, in some religious ceremonies, an individual may report hearing voices, but these do not generally persist and are not perceived as abnormal by most members of the individual’s community. In addition, cultural and religious background must be taken into account when considering whether beliefs are delusional.'
2 | 'Schizoaffective Disorder' | 'Cultural and socioeconomic factors must be considered, particularly when the individual and the clinician do not share the same cultural and socioeconomic background. Ideas that appear to be delusional in one culture (e.g., witchcraft) may be commonly held in another. In some cultures, visual or auditory hallucinations with a religious content (e.g., hearing God’s voice) are a normal part of religious experience. In addition, the assessment of disorganized speech may be made difficult by linguistic variation in narrative styles across cultures. The assessment of affect requires sensitivity to differences in styles of emotional expression, eye contact, and body language, which vary across cultures. If the assessment is conducted in a language that is different from the individual’s primary language, care must be taken to ensure that alogia is not related to linguistic barriers. In certain cultures, distress may take the form of hallucinations or pseudo-hallucinations and overvalued ideas that may present clinically similar to true psychosis but are normative to the patient’s subgroup.'
2 | 'Schizophrenia' | 'Cultural and socioeconomic factors must be considered, particularly when the individual and the clinician do not share the same cultural and economic background. Ideas that appear to be delusional in one culture (e.g., witchcraft) may be commonly held in another. There is also some evidence in the literature for the overdiagnosis of schizophrenia compared with schizoaffective disorder in African American and Hispanic populations, so care must be taken to ensure a culturally appropriate evaluation that includes both psychotic and affective symptoms ( Anglin and Malaspina 2008 ; Blow et al. 2004 ; Strakowski et al. 1996 ) .'
3 | 'Bipolar I Disorder' | 'Little information exists on specific cultural differences in the expression of bipolar I disorder . One possible explanation for this may be that diagnostic instruments are often translated and applied in different cultures with no transcultural validation ( Sanches and Jorge 2004 ) . In one U.S. study, 12-month prevalence of bipolar I disorder was significantly lower for Afro-Caribbeans than for African Americans or whites ( Williams et al. 2007 ) .'
3 | 'Bipolar and Related Disorder Due to Another Medical Condition' | 'Culture-related differences, to the extent that there is any evidence, pertain to those associated with the medical condition (e.g., rates of multiple sclerosis and stroke vary around the world based on dietary, genetic factors, and other environmental factors).'
4 | 'Major Depressive Disorder' | 'Surveys of major depressive disorder across diverse cultures have shown sevenfold differences in 12-month prevalence rates but much more consistency in female-to-male ratio, mean ages at onset, and the degree to which presence of the disorder raises the likelihood of comorbid substance abuse ( Weissman et al. 1996 ) . While these findings suggest substantial cultural differences in the expression of major depressive disorder , they do not permit simple linkages between particular cultures and the likelihood of specific symptoms. Rather, clinicians should be aware that in most countries the majority of cases of depression go unrecognized in primary care settings ( Ballenger et al. 2001 ) and that in many cultures, somatic symptoms are very likely to constitute the presenting complaint. Among the Criterion A symptoms, insomnia and loss of energy are the most uniformly reported.'
4 | 'Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder' | 'Premenstrual dysphoric disorder is not a culture-bound syndrome and has been observed in individuals in the United States, Europe ( Fontana and Palfai 1994 ; Wittchen et al. 2002 ) , India ( Banerjee et al. 2000 ) , and Asia ( Takeda et al. 2006 ) . It is unclear as to whether rates differ by race ( Pilver et al. 2011 ; Stout et al. 1986 ) . Nevertheless, frequency, intensity, and expressivity of symptoms and help-seeking patterns may be significantly influenced by cultural factors.'
5 | 'Separation Anxiety Disorder' | 'There are cultural variations in the degree to which it is considered desirable to tolerate separation, so that demands and opportunities for separation between parents and children are avoided in some cultures. For example, there is wide variation across countries and cultures with respect to the age at which it is expected that offspring should leave the parental home. It is important to differentiate separation anxiety disorder from the high value some cultures place on strong interdependence among family members.'
5 | 'Selective Mutism' | 'Children in families who have immigrated to a country where a different language is spoken may refuse to speak the new language because of lack of knowledge of the language. If comprehension of the new language is adequate but refusal to speak persists, a diagnosis of selective mutism may be warranted.'
5 | 'Specific Phobia' | 'In the United States, Asians and Latinos report significantly lower rates of specific phobia than non-Latino whites, African Americans, and Native Americans ( Stinson et al. 2007 ) . In addition to having lower prevalence rates of specific phobia , some countries outside of the United States, particularly Asian and African countries, show differing phobia content, age at onset, and gender ratios ( Ollendick et al. 1996 ) .'
5 | 'Social Anxiety Disorder (Social Phobia)' | 'The syndrome of taijin kyofusho (e.g., in Japan and Korea) is often characterized by social-evaluative concerns, fulfilling criteria for social anxiety disorder , that are associated with the fear that the individual makes other people uncomfortable (e.g., “My gaze upsets people so they look away and avoid me”), a fear that is at times experienced with delusional intensity. This symptom may also be found in non-Asian settings. Other presentations of taijin kyofusho may fulfill criteria for body dysmorphic disorder or delusional disorder ( Choy et al. 2008 ; Kinoshita et al. 2008 ; Lewis-Fernández et al. 2010 ) . Immigrant status is associated with significantly lower rates of social anxiety disorder in both Latino and non-Latino white groups ( Lewis-Fernández et al. 2010 ) . Prevalence rates of social anxiety disorder may not be in line with self-reported social anxiety levels in the same culture—that is, societies with strong collectivistic orientations may report high levels of social anxiety but low prevalence of social anxiety disorder ( Heinrichs et al. 2006 ) .'
5 | 'Panic Disorder' | 'The rate of fears about mental and somatic symptoms of anxiety appears to vary across cultures and may influence the rate of panic attacks and panic disorder ( Lewis-Fernández et al. 2010 ) . Also, cultural expectations may influence the classification of panic attacks as expected or unexpected. For example, a Vietnamese individual who has a panic attack after walking out into a windy environment ( trúng gió; “hit by the wind”) may attribute the panic attack to exposure to wind as a result of the cultural syndrome that links these two experiences, resulting in classification of the panic attack as expected. Various other cultural syndromes are associated with panic disorder , including ataque de nervios (“attack of nerves”) among Latin Americans and khyâl attacks and “soul loss” among Cambodians ( Lewis-Fernández et al. 2010 ) . Ataque de nervios may involve trembling, uncontrollable screaming or crying, aggressive or suicidal behavior, and depersonalization or derealization, which may be experienced longer than the few minutes typical of panic attacks ( Lewis-Fernández et al. 2010 ) . Some clinical presentations of ataque de nervios fulfill criteria for conditions other than panic attack (e.g., other specified dissociative disorder ). These syndromes impact the symptoms and frequency of panic disorder , including the individual’s attribution of unexpectedness, as cultural syndromes may create fear of certain situations, ranging from interpersonal arguments (associated with ataque de nervios ), to types of exertion (associated with khyâl attacks), to atmospheric wind (associated with trúng gió attacks). Clarification of the details of cultural attributions may aid in distinguishing expected and unexpected panic attacks ( Craske et al. 2010 ) . For more information regarding cultural syndromes, refer to the “Glossary of Cultural Concepts of Distress” in the Appendix.', 'The specific worries about panic attacks or their consequences are likely to vary from one culture to another (and across different age groups and gender). For panic disorder , U.S. community samples of non-Latino whites have significantly less functional impairment than African Americans ( Lewis-Fernández et al. 2010 ) . There are also higher rates of objectively defined severity in non-Latino Caribbean blacks with panic disorder , and lower rates of panic disorder overall in both African American and Afro-Caribbean groups, suggesting that among individuals of African descent, the criteria for panic disorder may be met only when there is substantial severity and impairment.'
5 | 'Panic Attack Specifier' | 'Cultural interpretations may influence the determination of panic attacks as expected or unexpected. Culture-specific symptoms (e.g., tinnitus, neck soreness, headache, and uncontrollable screaming or crying) may be seen; however, such symptoms should not count as one of the four required symptoms. Frequency of each of the 13 symptoms varies cross-culturally (e.g., higher rates of paresthesias in African Americans and of dizziness in several Asian groups) ( Lewis- Fernández et al. 2010 ) . Cultural syndromes also influence the cross-cultural presentation of panic attacks, resulting in different symptom profiles across different cultural groups. Examples include khyâl (wind) attacks, a Cambodian cultural syndrome involving dizziness, tinnitus, and neck soreness; and trúng gió (wind-related) attacks, a Vietnamese cultural syndrome associated with headaches. Ataque de nervios (attack of nerves) is a cultural syndrome among Latin Americans that may involve trembling, uncontrollable screaming or crying, aggressive or suicidal behavior, and depersonalization or derealization, and which may be experienced for longer than only a few minutes ( Lewis- Fernández et al. 2010 ) . Some clinical presentations of ataque de nervios fulfill criteria for conditions other than panic attack (e.g., other specified dissociative disorder). Also, cultural expectations may influence the classification of panic attacks as expected or unexpected, as cultural syndromes may create fear of certain situations, ranging from interpersonal arguments (associated with ataque de nervios ), to types of exertion (associated with khyâl attacks), to atmospheric wind (associated with trúng gió attacks). Clarification of the details of cultural attributions may aid in distinguishing expected and unexpected panic attacks ( Craske et al. 2010 ) . For more information about cultural syndromes, see “Glossary of Cultural Concepts of Distress” in the Appendix to this manual.'
5 | 'Generalized Anxiety Disorder' | 'There is considerable cultural variation in the expression of generalized anxiety disorder. For example, in some cultures, somatic symptoms predominate in the expression of the disorder, whereas in other cultures cognitive symptoms tend to predominate. This difference may be more evident on initial presentation than subsequently, as more symptoms are reported over time. There is no information as to whether the propensity for excessive worrying is related to culture, although the topic being worried about can be culture specific. It is important to consider the social and cultural context when evaluating whether worries about certain situations are excessive ( Le wis-Fernández et al. 2010 ) .'
6 | 'Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder' | 'OCD occurs across the world. There is substantial similarity across cultures in the gender distribution, age at onset, and comorbidity of OCD ( Lewis-Fernández et al. 2010 ) . Moreover, around the globe, there is a similar symptom structure involving cleaning, symmetry, hoarding, taboo thoughts, or fear of harm ( Bloch et al. 2008 ) . However, regional variation in symptom expression exists, and cultural factors may shape the content of obsessions and compulsions.'
6 | 'Body Dysmorphic Disorder' | 'Body dysmorphic disorder has been reported internationally. It appears that the disorder may have more similarities than differences across races and cultures but that cultural values and preferences may influence symptom content to some degree ( Phillips et al. 2010b ) . Taijin kyofusho, included in the traditional Japanese diagnostic system, has a subtype similar to body dysmorphic disorder : shubo-kyofu (“the phobia of a deformed body”) ( Phillips et al. 2010b ) .'
6 | 'Hoarding Disorder' | 'While most of the research has been done in Western, industrialized countries and urban communities, the available data from non-Western and developing countries suggest that hoarding is a universal phenomenon with consistent clinical features ( Mataix-Cols et al. 2010 ) .'
6 | 'Trichotillomania (Hair-Pulling Disorder)' | 'Trichotillomania appears to manifest similarly across cultures, although there is a paucity of data from non-Western regions.'
7 | 'Reactive Attachment Disorder' | 'Similar attachment behaviors have been described in young children in many different cultures around the world. However, caution should be exercised in making the diagnosis of reactive attachment disorder in cultures in which attachment has not been studied.'
7 | 'Posttraumatic Stress Disorder' | 'The risk of onset and severity of PTSD may differ across cultural groups as a result of variation in the type of traumatic exposure (e.g., genocide), the impact on disorder severity of the meaning attributed to the traumatic event (e.g., inability to perform funerary rites after a mass killing), the ongoing sociocultural context (e.g., residing among unpunished perpetrators in postconflict settings), and other cultural factors (e.g., acculturative stress in immigrants) ( Hinton and Lewis-Fernández 2011 ) . The relative risk for PTSD of particular exposures (e.g., religious persecution) may vary across cultural groups. The clinical expression of the symptoms or symptom clusters of PTSD may vary culturally, particularly with respect to avoidance and numbing symptoms, distressing dreams, and somatic symptoms (e.g., dizziness, shortness of breath, heat sensations).', 'Cultural syndromes and idioms of distress influence the expression of PTSD and the range of comorbid disorders in different cultures by providing behavioral and cognitive templates that link traumatic exposures to specific symptoms. For example, panic attack symptoms may be salient in PTSD among Cambodians and Latin Americans because of the association of traumatic exposure with panic-like khyâl attacks and ataque de nervios ( Hinton and Lewis-Fernández 2011 ) . Comprehensive evaluation of local expressions of PTSD should include assessment of cultural concepts of distress (see the chapter “Cultural Formulation” in Section III).'
7 | 'Acute Stress Disorder' | 'The profile of symptoms of acute stress disorder may vary cross-culturally, particularly with respect to dissociative symptoms, nightmares, avoidance, and somatic symptoms (e.g., dizziness, shortness of breath, heat sensations). Cultural syndromes and idioms of distress shape the local symptom profiles of acute stress disorder . Some cultural groups may display variants of dissociative responses, such as possession or trancelike behaviors in the initial month after trauma exposure ( Kirmayer 1996 ) . Panic symptoms may be salient in acute stress disorder among Cambodians because of the association of traumatic exposure with panic-like khyâl attacks, and ataque de nervios among Latin Americans may also follow a traumatic exposure ( Hinton and Lewis-Fernández ) .'
7 | 'Adjustment Disorders' | 'The context of the individual’s cultural setting should be taken into account in making the clinical judgment of whether the individual’s response to the stressor is maladaptive or whether the associated distress is in excess of what would be expected. The nature, meaning, and experience of the stressors and the evaluation of the response to the stressors may vary across cultures.'
8 | 'Dissociative Identity Disorder' | 'Many features of dissociative identity disorder can be influenced by the individual’s cultural background. Individuals with this disorder may present with prominent medically unexplained neurological symptoms, such as non-epileptic seizures, paralyses, or sensory loss, in cultural settings where such symptoms are common ( Saxena and Prasad 1989 ; Tezcan et al. 2003 ) . Similarly, in settings where normative possession is common (e.g., rural areas in the developing world, among certain religious groups in the United States and Europe), the fragmented identities may take the form of possessing spirits, deities, demons, animals, or mythical figures ( Spiegel et al. 2011 ) . Acculturation or prolonged intercultural contact may shape the characteristics of the other identities (e.g., identities in India may speak English exclusively and wear Western clothes). Possession-form dissociative identity disorder can be distinguished from culturally accepted possession states in that the former is involuntary, distressing, uncontrollable, and often recurrent or persistent; involves conflict between the individual and his or her surrounding family, social, or work milieu; and is manifested at times and in places that violate the norms of the culture or religion ( Spiegel et al. 2011 ) .'
8 | 'Dissociative Amnesia' | 'In Asia, the Middle East, and Latin America, non-epileptic seizures and other functional neurological symptoms may accompany dissociative amnesia . In cultures with highly restrictive social traditions, the precipitants of dissociative amnesia often do not involve frank trauma. Instead, the amnesia is preceded by severe psychological stresses or conflicts (e.g., marital conflict, other family disturbances, attachment problems, conflicts due to restriction or oppression).'
8 | 'Depersonalization/Derealization Disorder' | 'Volitionally induced experiences of depersonalization/derealization can be a part of meditative practices that are prevalent in many religions and cultures and should not be diagnosed as a disorder. However, there are individuals who initially induce these states intentionally but over time lose control over them and may develop a fear and aversion for related practices.'
9 | 'Somatic Symptom Disorder' | 'Somatic symptoms are prominent in various “culture-bound syndromes.” High numbers of somatic symptoms are found in population-based and primary care studies around the world, with a similar pattern of the most commonly reported somatic symptoms, impairment, and treatment seeking ( Hausteiner-Wiehle et al. 2011 ; Hiller et al. 2006 ; Sumathipala et al. 2008 ) . The relationship between number of somatic symptoms and illness worry is similar in different cultures, and marked illness worry is associated with impairment and greater treatment seeking across cultures ( Lee et al. 2011 ; Rief et al. 2001 ) . The relationship between numerous somatic symptoms and depression appears to be very similar around the world and between different cultures within one country.', 'Despite these similarities, there are differences in somatic symptoms among cultures and ethnic groups. The description of somatic symptoms varies with linguistic and other local cultural factors. These somatic presentations have been described as “idioms of distress” because somatic symptoms may have special meanings and shape patient-clinician interactions in the particular cultural contexts. “Burnout,” the sensation of heaviness or the complaints of “gas”; too much heat in the body; or burning in the head are examples of symptoms that are common in some cultures or ethnic groups but rare in others ( Kirmayer and Sartorius 2007 ) . Explanatory models also vary, and somatic symptoms may be attributed variously to particular family, work, or environmental stresses; general medical illness; the suppression of feelings of anger and resentment; or certain culture-specific phenomena, such as semen loss ( Hausteiner-Wiehle et al. 2011 ; Sumathipala et al. 2004 ; Sumathipala et al. 2008 ) . There may also be differences in medical treatment seeking among cultural groups, in addition to differences due to variable access to medical care services. Seeking treatment for multiple somatic symptoms in general medical clinics is a worldwide phenomenon and occurs at similar rates among ethnic groups in the same country ( Creed 2011 ) .'
9 | 'Illness Anxiety Disorder' | 'The diagnosis should be made with caution in individuals whose ideas about disease are congruent with widely held, culturally sanctioned beliefs. Little is known about the phenomenology of the disorder across cultures, although the prevalence appears to be similar across different countries with diverse cultures ( Gureje et al. 1997 ) .'
9 | 'Conversion Disorder (Functional Neurological Symptom Disorder)' | 'Changes resembling conversion (and dissociative) symptoms are common in certain culturally sanctioned rituals ( Brown and Lewis-Fernández 2011 ) . If the symptoms are fully explained within the particular cultural context and do not result in clinically significant distress or disability, then the diagnosis of conversion disorder is not made.'
9 | 'Psychological Factors Affecting Other Medical Conditions' | 'Many differences between cultures may influence psychological factors and their effects on medical conditions, such as those in language and communication style, explanatory models of illness, patterns of seeking health care, service availability and organization, doctor-patient relationships and other healing practices, family and gender roles, and attitudes toward pain and death ( Trill and Holland 1993 ) . Psychological factors affecting other medical conditions must be differentiated from culturally specific behaviors such as using faith or spiritual healers or other variations in illness management that are acceptable within a culture and represent an attempt to help the medical condition rather than interfere with it. These local practices may complement rather than obstruct evidence-based interventions. If they do not adversely affect outcomes, they should not be pathologized as psychological factors affecting other medical conditions .'
10 | 'Pica' | 'In some populations, the eating of earth or other seemingly nonnutritive substances is believed to be of spiritual, medicinal, or other social value, or may be a culturally supported or socially normative practice. Such behavior does not warrant a diagnosis of pica (Criterion C).'
10 | 'Avoidant/Restrictive Food Intake Disorder' | 'Presentations similar to avoidant/restrictive food intake disorder occur in various populations, including in the United States, Canada, Australia, and Europe ( Nicholls et al. 2011 ) . Avoidant/restrictive food intake disorder should not be diagnosed when avoidance of food intake is solely related to specific religious or cultural practices.'
10 | 'Anorexia Nervosa' | 'Anorexia nervosa occurs across culturally and socially diverse populations, although available evidence suggests cross-cultural variation in its occurrence and presentation ( Hoek et al. 2005 ; Keel and Klump 2003 ) . Anorexia nervosa is probably most prevalent in post-industrialized, high-income countries such as in the United States, many European countries, Australia, New Zealand, and Japan, but its incidence in most low- and middle-income countries is uncertain. Whereas the prevalence of anorexia nervosa appears comparatively low among Latinos, African Americans, and Asians in the United States, clinicians should be aware that mental health service utilization among individuals with an eating disorder is significantly lower in these ethnic groups and that the low rates may reflect an ascertainment bias ( Marques et al. 2011 ) . The presentation of weight concerns among individuals with feeding and eating disorders varies substantially across cultural contexts. The absence of an expressed intense fear of weight gain, sometimes referred to as “fat phobia,” appears to be relatively more common in populations in Asia, where the rationale for dietary restriction is commonly related to a more culturally sanctioned complaint such as gastrointestinal discomfort ( Becker et al. 2009 ) . Within the United States, presentations without a stated intense fear of weight gain may be comparatively more common among Latino groups.'
10 | 'Bulimia Nervosa' | 'Bulimia nervosa has been reported to occur with roughly similar frequencies in most industrialized countries, including the United States, Canada, many European countries, Australia, Japan, New Zealand, and South Africa. In clinical studies of bulimia nervosa in the United States, individuals presenting with this disorder are primarily white. However, the disorder also occurs in other ethnic groups and with prevalence comparable to estimated prevalences observed in white samples ( Marques et al. 2011 ) .'
10 | 'Binge-Eating Disorder' | 'Binge-eating disorder occurs with roughly similar frequencies in most industrialized countries, including the United States, Canada, many European countries, Australia, and New Zealand ( Striegel-Moore and Bulik 2007 ) . In the United States, the prevalence of binge-eating disorder appears comparable among non-Latino whites, Latinos, Asians, and African Americans ( Marques et al. 2011 ) .'
11 | 'Enuresis' | 'Enuresis has been reported in a variety of European, African, and Asian countries as well as in the United States. At a national level, prevalence rates are remarkably similar, and there is great similarity in the developmental trajectories found in different countries. There are very high rates of enuresis in orphanages and other residential institutions, likely related to the mode and environment in which toilet training occurs.'
12 | 'Narcolepsy' | 'Narcolepsy has been described in all ethnic groups and in many cultures. Among African Americans, more cases present without cataplexy or with atypical cataplexy, complicating diagnosis, especially in the presence of obesity and obstructive sleep apnea ( Bassetti et al. 2007 ) .'
12 | 'Obstructive Sleep Apnea Hypopnea' | 'There is a potential for sleepiness and fatigue to be reported differently across cultures. In some groups, snoring may be considered a sign of health and thus may not trigger concerns. Individuals of Asian ancestry may be at increased risk for obstructive sleep apnea hypopnea despite relatively low BMI, possibly reflecting the influence of craniofacial risk factors that narrow the nasopharynx.'
12 | 'Circadian Rhythm Sleep-Wake Disorders' | 'African Americans may have a shorter circadian period and larger magnitude phase advances to light than do Caucasians, possibly increasing the risk for development of advanced sleep phase type in this population ( Smith et al. 2009 ) .'
12 | 'Nightmare Disorder' | 'The significance attributed to nightmares may vary by culture, and sensitivity to such beliefs may facilitate disclosure.'
12 | 'Substance/Medication-Induced Sleep Disorder' | 'The consumption of substances, including prescribed medications, may depend in part on cultural background and specific local drug regulations.'
13 | 'Delayed Ejaculation' | 'Complaints of ejaculatory delay vary across countries and cultures. Such complaints are more common among men in Asian populations than in men living in Europe, Australia, or the United States ( Laumann et al. 2005 ) . This variation may be attributable to cultural or genetic differences between cultures.'
13 | 'Erectile Disorder' | 'Complaints of erectile disorder have been found to vary across countries ( Nicolosi et al. 2004 ) . It is unclear to what extent these differences represent differences in cultural expectations as opposed to genuine differences in the frequency of erectile failure.'
13 | 'Female Orgasmic Disorder' | 'The degree to which lack of orgasm in women is regarded as a problem that requires treatment may vary depending on cultural context. In addition, women differ in how important orgasm is to their sexual satisfaction. There may be marked sociocultural and generational differences in women’s orgasmic ability. For example, the prevalence of inability to reach orgasm has ranged from 17.7% (in Northern Europe) to 42.2% (in Southeast Asia) ( Laumann et al. 1995 ) .'
13 | 'Female Sexual Interest/Arousal Disorder' | 'There is marked variability in prevalence rates of low desire across cultures ( Laumann et al. 2005 ) . Lower rates of sexual desire may be more common among East Asian women compared with Euro-Canadian women ( Woo et al. 2011 ; Woo et al. 2012 ) . Although the lower levels of sexual desire and arousal found in men and women from East Asian countries compared with Euro-American groups may reflect less interest in sex in those cultures, the possibility remains that such group differences are an artifact of the measures used to quantify desire. A judgment about whether low sexual desire reported by a woman from a certain ethnocultural group meets criteria for female sexual interest/arousal disorder must take into account the fact that different cultures may pathologize some behaviors and not others.'
13 | 'Genito-Pelvic Pain/Penetration Disorder' | 'In the past, inadequate sexual education and religious orthodoxy have often been considered to be culturally related predisposing factors to the DSM-IV diagnosis of vaginismus. This perception appears to be confirmed by recent reports from Turkey, a primarily Muslim country, indicating a strikingly high prevalence for the disorder ( Dogan 2009 ) . However, most available research, although limited in scope, does not support this notion.'
13 | 'Male Hypoactive Sexual Desire Disorder' | 'There is marked variability in prevalence rates of low desire across cultures, ranging from 12.5% in Northern European men to 28% in Southeast Asian men ages 40–80 years ( Lau mann et al. 2005 ) . Just as there are higher rates of low desire among East Asian subgroups of women, men of East Asian ancestry also have higher rates of low desire. Guilt about sex may mediate this association between East Asian ethnicity and sexual desire in men ( Brotto et al. 2012 ) .'
13 | 'Premature (Early) Ejaculation' | 'Perception of what constitutes a normal ejaculatory latency is different in many cultures. Measured ejaculatory latencies may differ in some countries ( Waldinger et al. 2005 ) . Such differences may be explained by cultural or religious factors as well as genetic differences between populations.'
13 | 'Substance/Medication-Induced Sexual Dysfunction' | 'There may be an interaction among cultural factors, the influence of medications on sexual functioning, and the response of the individual to those changes ( Graham et al. 1995 ) .'
14 | 'Gender Dysphoria' | 'Individuals with gender dysphoria have been reported across many countries and cultures. The equivalent of gender dysphoria has also been reported in individuals living in cultures with institutionalized gender categories other than male or female. It is unclear whether with these individuals the diagnostic criteria for gender dysphoria would be met .'
15 | 'Oppositional Defiant Disorder' | 'The prevalence of the disorder in children and adolescents is relatively consistent across countries that differ in race and ethnicity ( Canino et al. 2010 ) .'
15 | 'Intermittent Explosive Disorder' | 'The lower prevalence of intermittent explosive disorder in some regions (Asia, Middle East) or countries (Romania, Nigeria), compared with the United States, suggests that information about recurrent, problematic, impulsive aggressive behaviors either is not elicited on questioning or is less likely to be present, because of cultural factors.'
15 |'Conduct Disorder' | 'Conduct disorder diagnosis may at times be potentially misapplied to individuals in settings where patterns of disruptive behavior are viewed as near-normative (e.g., in very threatening, high-crime areas or war zones). Therefore, the context in which the undesirable behaviors have occurred should be considered.'
16 | 'Alcohol Use Disorder' | 'In most cultures, alcohol is the most frequently used intoxicating substance and contributes to considerable morbidity and mortality. An estimated 3.8% of all global deaths and 4.6% of global disability-adjusted life-years are attributable to alcohol ( Rehm et al. 2009 ) . In the United States, 80% of adults (age 18 years and older) have consumed alcohol at some time in their lives, and 65% are current drinkers (last 12 months) ( Pleis et al. 2010 ) . An estimated 3.6% of the world population (15–64 years old) has a current (12-month) alcohol use disorder , with a lower prevalence (1.1%) found in the African region, a higher rate (5.2%) found in the American region (North, South, and Central America and the Caribbean), and the highest rate (10.9%) found in the Eastern Europe region ( Rehm et al. 2009 ) .', 'Polymorphisms of genes for the alcohol-metabolizing enzymes alcohol dehydrogenase and aldehyde dehydrogenase are most often seen in Asians and affect the response to alcohol. When consuming alcohol, individuals with these gene variations can experience a flushed face and palpitations, reactions that can be so severe as to limit or preclude future alcohol consumption and diminish the risk for alcohol use disorder . These gene variations are seen in as many as 40% of Japanese, Chinese, Korean, and related groups worldwide and are related to lower risks for the disorder ( Eng et al. 2007 ; Tan et al. 2010 ) .', 'Despite small variations regarding individual criterion items, the diagnostic criteria perform equally well across most race/ethnicity groups ( Borges et al. 2010 ; Harford et al. 2009 ; Saha et al. 2007 ) .'
16 | 'Alcohol Intoxication' | 'The major issues parallel the cultural differences regarding the use of alcohol overall. Thus, college fraternities and sororities may encourage alcohol intoxication . This condition is also frequent on certain dates of cultural significance (e.g., New Year’s Eve) and, for some subgroups, during specific events (e.g., wakes following funerals). Other subgroups encourage drinking at religious celebrations (e.g., Jewish and Catholic holidays), while still others strongly discourage all drinking or intoxication (e.g., some religious groups, such as Mormons, fundamentalist Christians, and Muslims).'
16 | 'Caffeine Withdrawal' | 'Habitual caffeine consumers who fast for religious reasons may be at increased risk for caffeine withdrawal .'
16 | 'Cannabis Use Disorder' | 'Cannabis is probably the world’s most commonly used illicit substance ( Degenhardt et al. 2008 ) . Occurrence of cannabis use disorder across countries is unknown, but the prevalence rates are likely similar among developed countries ( Hall and Degenhardt 2007 ) . It is frequently among the first drugs of experimentation (often in the teens) of all cultural groups in the United States ( Degenhardt et al. 2010 ) .', 'Acceptance of cannabis for medical purposes varies widely across and within cultures. Cultural factors (acceptability and legal status) that might impact diagnosis relate to differential consequences across cultures for detection of use (i.e., arrest, school suspensions, or employment suspension). The general change in substance use disorder diagnostic criteria from DSM-IV to DSM-5 (i.e., removal of the recurrent substance-related legal problems criterion) mitigates this concern to some degree.'
16 | 'Phencyclidine Use Disorder' | 'Ketamine use in youths ages 16–23 years has been reported to be more common among whites (0.5%) than among other ethnic groups (range 0%–0.3%) ( Wu et al. 2006 ) . Among individuals admitted to substance abuse treatment, those for whom phencyclidine was the primary substance were predominantly black (49%) or Hispanic (29%) ( Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration 2004 ) .'
16 | 'Other Hallucinogen Use Disorder' | 'Historically, hallucinogens have been used as part of established religious practices, such as the use of peyote in the Native American Church and in Mexico. Ritual use by indigenous populations of psilocybin obtained from certain types of mushrooms has occurred in South America, Mexico, and some areas in the United States, or of ayahuasca in the Santo Daime and União de Vegetal sects ( El-Mallakh et al. 2008 ) . Regular use of peyote as part of religious rituals is not linked to neuropsychological or psychological deficits ( Halpern et al. 2005 ) . For adults, no race or ethnicity differences for the full criteria or for any individual criterion are apparent at this time.'
16 | 'Inhalant Use Disorder' | 'Certain native or aboriginal communities have experienced a high prevalence of inhalant problems ( Cairney and Dingwall 2010 ; Mitchell et al. 2003 ) . Also, in some countries, groups of homeless children in street gangs have extensive inhalant use problems ( Seth et al. 2005 ) .'
16 | 'Opioid Use Disorder' | 'Despite small variations regarding individual criterion items, opioid use disorder diagnostic criteria perform equally well across most race/ethnicity groups. Individuals from ethnic minority populations living in economically deprived areas have been overrepresented among individuals with opioid use disorder . However, over time, opioid use disorder is seen more often among white middle-class individuals, especially females, suggesting that differences in use reflect the availability of opioid drugs and that other social factors may impact prevalence. Medical personnel who have ready access to opioids may be at increased risk for opioid use disorder .'
16 | 'Sedative, Hypnotic, or Anxiolytic Use Disorder' | 'There are marked variations in prescription patterns (and availability) of this class of substances in different countries, which may lead to variations in prevalence of sedative, hypnotic, or anxiolytic use disorders.'
16 | 'Stimulant Use Disorder' | 'Stimulant use–attendant disorders affect all racial/ethnic, socioeconomic, age, and gender groups. Diagnostic issues may be related to societal consequences (e.g., arrest, school suspensions, employment suspension). Despite small variations, cocaine and other stimulant use disorder diagnostic criteria perform equally across gender and race/ethnicity groups ( Blanco et al. 2007 ; Schmidt and Room 1999 ; Wu et al. 20 09 ; Wu et al. 2010 ) .', 'Chronic use of cocaine impairs cardiac left ventricular function in African Americans ( Ren et al. 2006 ) . Approximately 66% of individuals admitted for primary methamphetamine/amphetamine-related disorders are non-Hispanic white, followed by 21% of Hispanic origin, 3% Asian and Pacific Islander, and 3% non-Hispanic black ( Substance Abuse and Mental Healt h Services Administration 2009 ) .'
16 | 'Tobacco Use Disorder' | 'Cultures and subcultures vary widely in their acceptance of the use of tobacco. The prevalence of tobacco use declined in the United States from the 1960s through the 1990s, but this decrease has been less evident in African American and Hispanic populations ( Giovino 2007 ) . Also, smoking in developing countries is more prevalent than in developed nations ( Wipfli and Samet 2009 ) . The degree to which these cultural differences are due to income, education, and tobacco control activities in a country is unclear ( Giovino 2007 ; World Health Organization 2008 ) . Non-Hispanic white smokers appear to be more likely to develop tobacco use disorder than are smokers ( Giovino 2007 ) . Some ethnic differences may be biologically based ( Mickens et al. 2010 ) . African American males tend to have higher nicotine blood levels for a given number of cigarettes, and this might contribute to greater difficulty in quitting. Also, the speed of nicotine metabolism is significantly different for whites compared with African Americans and can vary by genotypes associated with ethnicities.'
16 | 'Other (or Unknown) Substance  Use Disorder' | 'Certain cultures may be associated with other (or unknown) substance use disorders involving specific indigenous substances within the cultural region, such as betel nut.'
16 | 'Other (or Unknown) Substance Withdrawal' | 'Culture-related issues in diagnosis will vary with the particular substance.'
16 | 'Gambling Disorder' | 'Individuals from specific cultures and races/ethnicities are more likely to participate in some types of gambling activities than others (e.g., pai gow, cockfights, blackjack, horse racing). Prevalence rates of gambling disorder are higher among African Americans than among European Americans, with rates for Hispanic Americans similar to those of European Americans ( Alegria et al. 2009 ) . Indigenous populations have high prevalence rates of gambling disorder ( Volberg and Abbott 1997 ; Wardman et al. 2001 ) .'
17 | 'Mild Neurocognitive Disorder' | 'Individuals’ and families’ level of awareness and concern about neurocognitive symptoms may vary across ethnic and occupational groups. Neurocognitive symptoms are more likely to be noticed, particularly at the mild level, in individuals who engage in complex occupational, domestic, or recreational activities. In addition, norms for neuropsychological testing tend to be available only for broad populations, and thus they may not be easily applicable to individuals with less than high school education or those being evaluated outside their primary language or culture.'
17 | 'Major or Mild Neurocognitive Disorder Due to Alzheimer’s Disease' | 'Detection of an NCD may be more difficult in cultural and socioeconomic settings where memory loss is considered normal in old age, where older adults face fewer cognitive demands in everyday life, or where very low educational levels pose greater challenges to objective cognitive assessment.'
18 | 'General Personality Disorder' | 'Judgments about personality functioning must take into account the individual’s ethnic, cultural, and social background. Personality disorders should not be confused with problems associated with acculturation following immigration or with the expression of habits, customs, or religious and political values professed by the individual’s culture of origin. It is useful for the clinician, especially when evaluating someone from a different background, to obtain additional information from informants who are familiar with the person’s cultural background.'
18 | 'Paranoid Personality Disorder' | 'Some behaviors that are influenced by sociocultural contexts or specific life circumstances may be erroneously labeled paranoid and may even be reinforced by the process of clinical evaluation. Members of minority groups, immigrants, political and economic refugees, or individuals of different ethnic backgrounds may display guarded or defensive behaviors because of unfamiliarity (e.g., language barriers or lack of knowledge of rules and regulations) or in response to the perceived neglect or indifference of the majority society. These behaviors can, in turn, generate anger and frustration in those who deal with these individuals, thus setting up a vicious cycle of mutual mistrust, which should not be confused with paranoid personality disorder . Some ethnic groups also display culturally related behaviors that can be misinterpreted as paranoid.'
18 | 'Schizoid Personality Disorder' | 'Individuals from a variety of cultural backgrounds sometimes exhibit defensive behaviors and interpersonal styles that may be erroneously labeled as “schizoid.” For example, those who have moved from rural to metropolitan environments may react with “emotional freezing” that may last for several months and manifest as solitary activities, constricted affect, and other deficits in communication. Immigrants from other countries are sometimes mistakenly perceived as cold, hostile, or indifferent.'
18 | 'Antisocial Personality Disorder' | 'Cognitive and perceptual distortions must be evaluated in the context of the individual’s cultural milieu. Pervasive culturally determined characteristics, particularly those regarding religious beliefs and rituals, can appear to be schizotypal to the uninformed outsider (e.g., voodoo, speaking in tongues, life beyond death, shamanism, mind reading, sixth sense, evil eye, magical beliefs related to health and illness).'
18 | 'Schizoid Personality Disorder' | 'Antisocial personality disorder appears to be associated with low socioeconomic status and urban settings. Concerns have been raised that the diagnosis may at times be misapplied to individuals in settings in which seemingly antisocial behavior may be part of a protective survival strategy. In assessing antisocial traits, it is helpful for the clinician to consider the social and economic context in which the behaviors occur.'
18 | 'Borderline Personality Disorder' | 'The pattern of behavior seen in borderline personality disorder has been identified in many settings around the world. Adolescents and young adults with identity problems (especially when accompanied by substance use) may transiently display behaviors that misleadingly give the impression of borderline personality disorder . Such situations are characterized by emotional instability, “existential” dilemmas, uncertainty, anxiety-provoking choices, conflicts about sexual orientation, and competing social pressures to decide on careers.'
18 | 'Histrionic Personality Disorder' | 'Norms for interpersonal behavior, personal appearance, and emotional expressiveness vary widely across cultures, genders, and age groups. Before considering the various traits (e.g., emotionality, seductiveness, dramatic interpersonal style, novelty seeking, sociability, charm, impressionability, a tendency to somatization) to be evidence of histrionic personality disorder , it is important to evaluate whether they cause clinically significant impairment or distress.'
18 | 'Avoidant Personality Disorder' | 'There may be variation in the degree to which different cultural and ethnic groups regard diffidence and avoidance as appropriate. Moreover, avoidant behavior may be the result of problems in acculturation following immigration.'
18 | 'Dependent Personality Disorder' | 'The degree to which dependent behaviors are considered to be appropriate varies substantially across different age and sociocultural groups. Age and cultural factors need to be considered in evaluating the diagnostic threshold of each criterion. Dependent behavior should be considered characteristic of the disorder only when it is clearly in excess of the individual’s cultural norms or reflects unrealistic concerns. An emphasis on passivity, politeness, and deferential treatment is characteristic of some societies and may be misinterpreted as traits of dependent personality disorder . Similarly, societies may differentially foster and discourage dependent behavior in males and females.'
18 | 'Obsessive-Compulsive Personality Disorder' | 'In assessing an individual for obsessive-compulsive personality disorder , the clinician should not include those behaviors that reflect habits, customs, or interpersonal styles that are culturally sanctioned by the individual’s reference group. Certain cultures place substantial emphasis on work and productivity; the resulting behaviors in members of those societies need not be considered indications of obsessive-compulsive personality disorder .'
19 | 'Fetishistic Disorder' | 'Knowledge of and appropriate consideration for normative aspects of sexual behavior are important factors to explore to establish a clinical diagnosis of fetishistic disorder and to distinguish a clinical diagnosis from a socially acceptable sexual behavior.'
